[Music]
ask most any pilot and he'll tell you
any landing you can walk away from is a
good landing but there's no such thing
as a totally safe emergency airplane
landing especially if it has to land on
water yet some gifted pilots can do
wonders with their metal wing birds even
if those birds are huge airliners with
lots of people on board I'm going to
share with you stories about four times
airplanes landed on the water without
any major injuries to the passengers
before we begin let's get one thing
straight
why is landing on water still called
landing if there's no land it can't be
called why during either that would be
strange
fortunately aviation thought it out and
landing a plane on water has its own
special term now it's called ditching
and this task is one of the hardest for
pilots period mainly because it's almost
impossible to train pilots to deal with
this situation especially if we're
talking about 1956 when there were no
training simulations available it was
that year when the first-ever successful
ditching of a passenger airplane was
executed and not just an airplane but a
Boeing 377 Strato Cruiser a huge liner
with four engines one of the first
airplanes with a pressurized cabin and
double deck feature with this double
deck it could take up to 100 passengers
on board but on this day October 16 1956
there were only 24 passengers and seven
members of the air crew on the plane the
Pan Am flight six was supposed to be an
around-the-world flight with several
stops along the way this was its last
take off from Honolulu before arriving
at the destination point in San
Francisco
unfortunately at the halfway point when
the plane was climbing in altitude one
of the Boeing's engines violated its
speed limit and stopped slowly but
surely the plane started to get closer
to the sea unable to keep the altitude
it didn't help that another engine
engine number four
also started to malfunction but still
pilots managed to distribute the
workload to the three remaining engines
and keep an altitude of 5000 feet still
another problem remained unsolved they
didn't have enough fuel to fly like this
either to San Francisco or back to
Honolulu ditching was the only option
but it was nighttime and it was too dark
to manage it I know the situation sounds
pretty scary but this is actually the
convenient part because they had to burn
as much fuel as possible until dawn the
less the weight of the plane the easier
it is to land it the daylight helped the
pilots immensely since the surface of
the sea is always changing there are
always waves and to successfully ditch a
plane pilots have to ditch it right
between two waves going perpendicular to
the wind direction otherwise the plane
will just break in half yes the surface
of the water is no softer than asphalt
for landing a plane and if the plane
even tried to release its landing gear
when ditching waves would just break the
wheels off and water would stream into
the hatches bad idea as you can imagine
this would drastically decrease a time a
plane might stay afloat and that's the
last thing you would want when awaiting
rescue in the middle of the ocean
fortunately for the people on board Pan
Am flight 6 they didn't have to wait at
all the ditch was performed early in the
morning at the speed of 103 miles per
hour the fuselage couldn't take the
beating and broke off it only took 17
minutes for the plane to sink and after
that all 31 people on the plane were
absolutely safe the rescue ended only
three minutes before it sank to the
bottom in this case applauding the
pilots certainly wasn't enough they
achieve something unheard of but they're
not the only ones to pull this kind of
stunt there are other examples in the
summer of 1963 the topple of tu1
twenty-four airplane with 52 people on
board was circling around in the skies
above st. Petersburg Russia trying to
find a way to ditch on the neva river
problems with this flight began
immediately after the plane took off in
taim the front gear of the plane wasn't
able to retract but the plane couldn't
turn back the weather was too foggy for
that as the flight was supposed to end
in moscow the closest place to land
safely along the way was in st.
Petersburg the ground services of the
local airport couldn't prepare the
runway in time the TU 124 was running
out of fuel too quickly
soon one of the engines ran out of gas
and stopped the pilots knew they'd have
to be responsible not only for the lives
of those on board but also for the lives
of citizens below who didn't even know
about the danger in the skies above the
decision to ditch on the neva river was
inevitable
the pilots managed not only to ditch on
the river in the middle of the city but
also barely missed crashing into one of
the bridges and still 52 people were
alive and well after this event call it
a miracle if you want what I would call
it a heroic deed with no shadow of a
doubt but miracles certainly exist you
see it's one thing to take a risk and
ditch a plane into the river or the
ocean but it's quite another to ditch a
plane on water unknowingly and do it
perfectly and with no casualties at all
this is what happened to Japan Airlines
flight to the Douglas dc-8 ditched on
the water near the San Francisco Coast
the first reports about these events
were shocking a large jetliner crashed
into San Francisco Bay today the Coast
Guard reported the plane was spotted in
dense fog upside down in reality things
weren't as crazy as written but only a
little less strange the pilot of the
dc-8 didn't even know he was landing on
water the ground control also didn't
notice any problems with the navigation
but in reality the plane was two and a
half miles away from the runway
this error was made due to the low
visibility caused by fog by the time the
pilot could see what he was doing it was
too late what was especially lucky for
the passengers is that the plane wasn't
far off the bag the sea there was only
23 feet deep and the dc-8 just couldn't
possibly sank
96 passengers and 11 crew members were
absolutely untouched there wasn't a
single bruise on them they were all soon
rescued on police and Coast Guard boats
and finally the record holder for the
number of people on board a ditching
plane airbus a320 of US Airways flight
1549 also known as the miracle of the
Hudson flight it happened 10 years ago
on January 15th the cause of this would
be catastrophic event was nothing more
than a flock of geese which struck the
engines but thanks to the mastery of the
air buses pilots and ingenuity of its
construction the 155 people on board
remained uninjured engineers that were
working on the Airbus a320 paid
attention to the accidents I was telling
you about before this plane has a
ditching button that helps a plane to
stay afloat for a longer period after
landing it seals most of the recesses in
the lower part of the plane to stop
water from leaking inside this would
have helped The Miracle on the Hudson
but pilots had very little time to
prepare for ditching because the birds
killed both engines of the Airbus there
was no power to keep it aloft it
happened at an altitude of almost 3,000
feet and the only option was to glide
down and hope that the best solution to
the problem would come to mind as soon
as possible
along their descent they asked for
permission to land on nearby runways but
they knew that the only solution was
obvious and it was right in front of the
Airbus a320 the Great Hudson River the
ditching itself wasn't the softest ever
but it was the most successful the
pilots didn't leave the plane until they
were sure everyone else had been
evacuated
the most remarkable thing about that
ditching is how precise it was even
without any engine throttle the plane
ditched near several tourist boats
already in the Hudson so help was
received soon and no boats were struck
by the plane either so which of these
stories left you the most impressed let
us know in the comments section if you
learned something new today then give
this video a like and share it with a
friend but hey don't ditch me just yet
who we have over 2,000 cool videos for
you to check out all you have to do is
pick the left or right video click on it
and enjoy stay on the bright side of
life